Hello community. So great that you are

back. Today we talk about supervised

finetuning. So forget about the harness,

forget about memory scale. We are back

to the pure LLM. And now we are looking

here at the finetuning mechanism and we

are at the token level and all the

golden little bubbles you see here are

single tokens. And we have here predict

the next token. But now we take care

about some effects and we are talking

about that we will calculate especially

the entropy here for each single token

and we will have a coolback lava

divergence that we also calculate here

and then we will have a force a force

where you see those are our virus

tokens. Notice how they have a high

entropy. We have to take care about them

because we have to keep them closer to

the reference model manifold. So here if

you want this is our kubak lava

divergence force compressing them down

here back to the manifold but of course

we will apply this only here to this

viral token with a high entropy and we

have here a combination of Shannon

entropy kublober divergence and yes I

can tell you this is not the right

formula because this is just an

abbreviation the mathematics will be

gorgeous we really go down on a token

level and apply mathematics on each and

every single token token and then we

will have a look at the result. So

supervised fine-tuning a new training

methodology for your LLM. If you're

interested, come and join me.

Now, you know, not all tokens are

created equal power transformer

especially the uniform cross entropy

training is highly destructive and our

high entropy tokens generate

disproportionately large high variant

gradients that the drive here the

parameter drift of the model and the

mode collapse. We do not want this

because we use supervised finetuning for

a very specific target.

Now if we identify and can isolate those

high-risk token this blue tokens from a

direct cross entropy supervision we can

safely adapt the models here to complex

reasoning domains without fearing that

we have to corrupt the fundamental

ability to explore. Remember the

exploration and the exploitation those

are our two friends here. So therefore

what we are looking for is a new

tokenbased training methodology for

large language model and we have this

idea I showed you here already here in

the image here at the beginning of this

video we have two let's call it soft

forces we have one pulling the

distribution here towards the reference

model pi reference while maintaining the

structural entropy scaled at particular

parameters here given here kuba clabber

and entropy preventing the high variance

exogenous forcing that destroy here the

exploratory diversity.

So we have two forces that we have to

bring under one hat and we have to

optimize this and we have somehow to

build a model that is a better

supervised fine-tuning training

methodology.

Now just recap supervised fine tuning.

Supervised fine tetuning a common

approach to adapt LLMs to downstream

task. You want that your LLM gets

familiar with how to do a certain

calculation, how perform a certain

formatting of a certain complexity.

Normally supervised fine-tuning is here

to learn something. So given now a

supervised data set D where we have our

X I and our Yi where X I denotes here

the prompt and the Yi denote the

corresponding response here of the

tokens and the objective is simple. Now

we train now the policy model pi theta

to maximize now the likelihood of the

response y given the corresponding

prompt x and this is simple this is what

we know there's nothing special this is

our classical supervised fine coding

this is the base

so what we are going to do now is for

the sequence of tokens t we compute now

two token level specific matrix for each

token t unbelievable now the first is

simple this This is the entropy

calculation. Now our H the token level

entropy quantifies here the uncertainty

of the next token probability

distribution produced by our large

language model and given a prompt X in a

language model distribution pi theta or

strategy of the model. The token level

entropy at the time step t is defined in

a classical way to denote this. This

means the policy probability of

generating the next token V condition T

under prompt X and the preceding history

sequence Y before T. This is all that we

need. Yeah, V denotes here the target

token and the vocabulary and everything

that you're familiar with. And then we

have the Kubak Liber divergent term in

our LLMs. Remember Kuba Liber use only

when we have here probability

distribution and we want to compare

probability distribution and this is

just a statistical formula this is it

but it is extremely important in AI so

Kubaklaba is a statistical divergence

that quantify how one probability

distribution differ from another given

two language model P theta and pi

reference the token level Kubaklaba

divergence for pi theta to pyref is

defined in the following way you

remember this and now we have this

beautiful study here by the university

of science the knowledge of China and

who are by cloud and those beautiful

people here. Some viewer of mine asked,

"Hey, can you please pronounce here the

name of the artist?" So to honor the or

listen, if I tell the name of the orus

in my German language, you are not going

to be happy. So no, I will just tell you

entropy kubc divergence base token

masking a novel approach for selectify

tuning of LLMs. This is published May

28, 2026. So let's have a look.

So to avoid setting now specific

thresholds for determining the category

of a token, they introduce now a top K

ratio strategy which ranks the token

within a given set. Clear? Now we want

to have here the most important token

with the highest uh entropy or whatever

we're looking for. So therefore given a

policy model pi data reference model pi

reference and a top k ratio of row row

is in the interval from 0 to one and a

sequential token sequency of t. We can

easily calculate the token level entropy

at the empty token TM and this is the

formula for it. Great. So we obtain all

the token entropy in T. Beautiful. And

the rank of the empty token by the

entropy cannot formulate it with here

the identity. Great. We know this.

Subsequently we select here the top K

ratio tokens defined now in the

following way. Yes. Beautiful. But of

course beyond the entropy and we have

been dealing with entropy quite a lot.

The authors tell us we found that tokens

with a large kubber lago divergence of

course no a high divergence from here

the reference model pi reference have a

pronounced effect on the drift of the

model parameters and you don't want this

no you want to have in your supervised

fine tuning that is that the the basic

knowledge that is already in the

pre-trained model that you stay with

this model you don't want to override

this knowledge if you do supervised fine

tuning so we take care that there's No

knowledge overwritten overwriting

happening here.

So guess what? Exactly similar to the

token level entropy computation, we do

now the same with the kubak lava

divergence and the empty token DM can be

calculated according to this formula.

Then again all tokens KL divergence in T

or the following and we just follow

through and we arrive now at our highest

top K ratio among the Kuba clever

divergence token and this is here what

we can code. So now we have it. Now

guess what? We can combine the entropy

and the kuba clubber selection in the

most simple way. It is a union operator

and this union operator covers here the

tokens that are either high entropy or

high kubc divergence ensuring that our

selective masking that we are doing now.

No, we have now two strengths. One is

here the one that we mask out the blue

one the blue bubbles we mask out. We

know oh those are those we have to treat

carefully because they are high entropy

and we have to apply here kubak law

divergence force on them but the other

one no the mask one where we just have

the normal quotation mark normal tokens

no in the selective masking mitigates

here both the entropy collapse and the

distributional shift the blue dangerous

one nodes are out and we just have a

normal supervised learning and the two

sets are largely complimentary Here this

is just nice.

Now if you have a look at the PL code

and thank you for the orders to

providing this here you have not a

complete sequence. No for each epoch we

do for each token we have here our

entropy calculation our coolback liver

divergence calculation when we determine

here the mask token number K. We have

here the let's say top 20 or top 50

whatever you decide easier. You have to

try it out here for your set. The number

of mask token that you want to go with.

Then you have the unit the union of the

mask token set. You compute then

classically the mask cross entropy loss

our CE cross entropy loss that we know

now for 10 15 years. And then then comes

something special because now remember

we have two soft forces. So what we do

have to do is now a regularization.

So we have now a compute mask entropy

irregularization and a compute mask

liber regularization.

So here is our last function. And guess

what? And then we combine everything.

And then we have our three terms and we

have our nlo operation. We have our

gradient and the output is now and

you're not going to believe it our new

fine-tuned policy model pi data. And we

have hopefully a better supervised

fine-tuned model now exactly in front of

us. So what seems to be a lot of a

mathematical operation is rather a

simple coding. Go to claude code or

whatever. It knows exactly how to code

this. And beautiful.

That's it. So let's start a summary.

What we have? We have a new selective

fine-tuning training algorithm that is

specific looking for high entropy and

high kuba labber divergent token and the

key insight is that our entropy kubert

select define tuning the eksft

is to activate the task relevant

knowledge while preserving on the other

hand the generalization of the general

knowledge of the fine-tuned model. We

don't want to forget knowledge. And to

achieve this, our ASFT modifies now the

standard cross entropy loss by masking

now this top critical top K top 20 or

whatever high entropy and high KB liber

divergent token. And therefore the main

loss function can now be rewritten since

we have now the formulas for those two

tokens that the main loss function is

now reformulated in this where MAR

denotes now the complement of M. Mbar is

remember the safe zone with our good

tokens.

And following here the prior work they

imply as I already showed you here in

the code a Kubakent regularization on

and now careful only on the mask token

of course to prevent here some

undesirable drift without altering here

the core design here of this AKSFT.

So the mass cubic clava divergence

regularization is known and the entropy

regularization is also known and as I've

already shown you we define now here the

new aksft loss function just by these

three terms. Beautiful. This is it.

If you have the loss function we can

start with the training. We just need a

training data set. They have a 3k

training data set generated. If you're

interested in the details of the

training data set please have a look at

the report yourself. I just going to

show you the results because

because it is a little bit

disappointing. Let's have a look.

So here we are the overall performance

comparison here in the stage one before

we applied now reinforcement learning.

So this is the pure supervised fine

tuning and they go here with a Q13 4

billion free parameter model and you see

here for AIM AIM25 AMC for different

benchmark and here in the the last

column you have here the average here

for different benchmark I give you here

all the other models and then of course

ours AKSFT

this entropy Kuba Glover supervised

finetuning is at aim not the best model

is the second best model. It is at XO

here also 73.3 together with two other

models here. I mean just the supervised

fine tuning has exactly the same

performance. So this is interesting with

AIM 25. It's a little bit different

because now it is the best performance

model here at passet one and pass 32 and

you see if you have the right

combination here and the average then

you achieve here that it is the best

performance model here on average at

posit one

h now if you look at here that the

supervised fine tuning gives you here on

average 41.0 zero and after we have done

a per token entropy calculation and a

per single token kak lava divergence and

some really interesting mathematical

operations with just a G41.7

dot 7

this is it less than one percentage

point difference well of course and you

might say maybe it was the 4B model so

let's have a look at the 8B model no

and see that the situation does not

really change. Yes, sometimes the new

model is here the best one, then it's

the second best, the second best, the

best one, the best one. And in general,

we are a little bit better with 43.1.

But compared to the computer and I think

this is about 1.7 to two times the

computer effort that you have to invest.

This is now something interesting. But

you might say maybe it changes here

after the reinforcement learning you

know because we always have supervised

fine tuning and reinforcement learning

as a package together. So let's do the

reinforcement learning here and let's

have a look. We have dappo of course

how does it change?

Well not really no I mean yeah there is

it is here. Yeah supervised finetuning

was 52 now it is 56. This was 80 now it

is 83. This was 40. now is 42.

Okay. So for the effort we invested, I

really would have expected a strong

effect, a stronger performance because

imagine we have done this on a per token

level

how how much more do you want to

compute?

And here you see now in red here we have

the pass at K and the red one is here

our new Andrew B. Koopa glyber

supervised fine-tuning methodology and

you see the red line yes it is dominant

but you see yeah it is here almost ex

equal with some other and then yeah it

is a little bit better I mean hardly any

better so

yeah this is the Q38B on M25 so you

might say okay so we do have the entropy

kubert library selective finetuning a

simple as the order say yet effective

modification to the supervised

finetuning

or the widely used supervised

fine-tuning and then do the

reinforcement learning post-training

paradigm which now masks our dangerous

high entropy or high kaklava divergence

token from the token level imitation in

the cross entropy objective here

mitigating hopefully the entropy

collapse or some distributional drift

during the normal supervised learning

okay as I told I thought we would have I

don't know 20%, 25%. But let's be clear,

these are the data yields an average

improvement here of

7 percentage in paret one and 5.1%age at

paret 32 on a Q13 4 billion model

compared to the standard supervised fine

tuning methodology. And if we go here

with the subst fine tuning and

reinforcement learning and we have

dabble for the reinforcement learning

pipeline, it outperforms the classical

standard super fine tuning in and dabble

by 5.6% on a pass at 32.

Okay, I expected 20%, I got 5%.

Anything else? Where is the chocolate

cake? Where's the jerry on the chocolate

cake? No. Hm. Now the authors argue that

this new A SFT reframes here the

supervised finetuning objective in AI.

Its role is to activate now task

relevant latent capabilities in the LLM

while preserving the underlying

pre-trained distribution of our

knowledge.

Okay. Yes, I can go with this. Okay. And

we take care about the most dangerous

tokens. Okay.

But I have the feeling that we are

missing something. Yeah.

Maybe you're interested to watch one of

my next videos. I hope to see you then.


