Hello community. So great that you are

back. Yes, today we talk about a user

harness system and you might said hey

wait a minute we have an AI harness.

What do you mean with a user harness?

Are we trying to simulate here the human

cognitive architecture?

Absolutely.

So we start with an objective world

state. This is here the reality. This is

the real world. Then we will have an eye

for an epistemic filtering. This is a

layer where the human brain just notices

some event and then we will build with

an AI system a subjective mind space. So

this is then we build an AI that

simulates this. So this is the agent's

internal world model. We'll have nested

beliefs and meta beliefs and goals and

values and policy computer actions and

everything. And it's time to start this.

And we all do this because there's a

simple question. And our global

corporations, you know, they care about

us customers and they have a simple

question in their mind. What are those

damn humans thinking? Because they ask

themselves, how can we manipulate them?

How can we guide them? How can we

influence them? How can we make them buy

in their little bubble that they stay

happy in their little bubble? that we

have the algorithms that those users

just are fed here on social media

exactly what they want to see a

self-reinforcing framework. How can we

use AI to make our customers happy that

they don't revolt and still continue to

buy our stuff?

So, we have here some some new

publication May 26, 2026. And this is a

user harness. So now we're going to

simulate now the deep interior of a

human belief system with AI. Isn't this

fantastic? So let's have a look. We have

to know about what is currently going on

in EI. So user hornness explicitly now

models a human user mindset as a

temporarily evolving belief goal action

loop for a theory of mind evaluation.

anyone say okay so let's have a closer

look so at each time step the user

observes here the external environment E

for environment forms an internal

observation O for observation and

updates here the internal belief that

the user has here from a B tus one to B

at the time T the updated belief now

together with the user's goal determines

now on the next user action do I press

this buy button on Amazon or on Ma. Do I

buy here this product here on Ma or on

any social media platform which then in

turn changes the environment to

environment T+1 the user board or

product and now the global corporations

are happy. So we have defined here time

flow. You see this here at the time

stamp t and then we move over here to

the time step t + 1 and we change this

the user made a decision to buy here

product or to sign up for a new abonom

or whatever. So let's have a look. This

new user horn is enables now here the

tested AI agent that simulates not a

user to explicitly track this hidden

cognitive process you know of those

humans across the timeline including now

both the user's own belief system and

all those nested belief about other

agents mental state.

Now there are of course locked elements

that indicate some private or

inaccessible mental state. Yeah, maybe

this user still has some sort that

global cooperation cannot penetrate to.

So this must be inferred rather than

directly observed. Hey, but luckily we

have a neural network. So no problem

about this. No. So by reconstructing now

this belief dynamics in a human mind,

the tested agent can now better

understand the user's perspective and

improve the performance on theory of

mind question.

But there's now the huge jump in this

paper. In this new technical paper, we

go go here from an answer prediction of

what this human is going to tell us to a

user mind reconstruction. This is the

main point of this study I'm going to

show you today. They say listen this is

so interwoven internal belief states

here all the influence here from

platforms ma whatever you are WhatsApp

Tik Tok whatever you name it we have to

build a system with a user mind and we

construct now here the belief creation

I mean isn't this beautiful just think

about the happy companies ma all social

media companies optimize marketing

optimize your selling optimize your

augmentation and it is just heaven for

influencer if we have now detailed

information how to optimize this. This

is the study of today and it is American

University the University of Illinois's

Ubana Champagne and they do exactly this

harness a user mind for a stronger agent

theory of mind and they call this the

user harness and the term harness will

make sense in about 10 minutes time why

suddenly we apply a harness that we have

normally in any system an energetic

system here that is around here the core

of the agent the LLM now we operate now

on a user to harness because we now want

to penetrate here this sort process

sphere of the customer and we have a

neural network to analyze this to guide

this to train this 26th of May 2026 now

we start

so the tell us we propose now the user

harness a simple inference time

framework you say hey wow that reframes

here the tear of mind solving now this

user mind reconstruction and rather than

asking here the tested agent to also

directly know from the raw story they

have now a problem because if you give

the complete story to an AI you

encounter the problems I showed you in

the last three videos. So user harness

now guides it to recover the user

perspective and it is asking hey what

has the user observed how those

observations shaped here the user human

belief and the human intention and how

this mental state explains now even

prediction action and maybe we as meter

we want to sell something here. We just

have at the right time just just comment

here or give here a particular piece of

information and suddenly we are over the

threshold and the user buys here presses

here the buy button.

Now of course the framing has to be

grounded in some principle. No the user

act on beliefs rather than reality. Of

course I mean come on if the user starts

to be a logical human being and not an

emotional human being the whole theory

will crumble. Yeah. The belief updates

only through accessible evidence. No,

what the user really notices. Intentions

operate under those beliefs. So we have

some multi-layer

belief system. And the social reasoning

know social media may require tracking

how one's user words or action affect

others mind or the user is infected here

in a group dynamic by some influencer by

some group leader and then it is

especially easy. Yeah.

And the others tell us we evaluate now

the user harness across five perspective

that cover now false belief, nested

belief, action prediction, goal

inference, communication complexity and

the social intention. Hey, absolutely

fascinating.

And I give you the result. This new

methodology, this new user harness

reaches now a particular accuracy

measurement of close to 96%.

So it seems to be very effective.

Congratulation Ma. So let's start theory

of mind research. Now it originates in

the study of how humans attribute mental

state such as beliefs, desires,

intention, perception and knowledge to

others. And if you want to have here,

this is a study here by Salesforce

research and of course University of

Illinois Champagne here from September

2025 training interactive user centric

AI agents via reinforcement learning

exactly already for this task. So you

see here University of Illinois is

really into this topic absolutely great

and incorporate here already in 2025

with Salesforce AI research and you have

this user facing benchmarks to

understand how is this possible what

have you taken care of what is happening

in the mind of a customer and those

benchmark increasingly evaluate whether

the agent can satisfy real user intents

can it really understand what the human

is thinking converse with simul related

users follow here domain policy discover

latent preferences and remain reliable

across multi-turn trajectories in a deep

conversation with the user. So finally

the step number six is the user presses

the buy button or upon or whatever you

have.

So what is now the methodology and you

might said oh yeah this is now

interesting user harness let's have a

deep dive. So just to make sure know we

have three different levels. We have the

real objective world state has almost no

influence here no importance here for a

human being there. Then we have the

filtering horizon that we have to take

care of and then we're going to work

here with the subjective human mind

space.

Beautiful. You see here oh wow this is

here uh AI generated. Yeah all those

images I don't paint them. I just give

you some commands and you will find here

in the images here some mistakes but I

just want to show you the main idea here

three layers and on this if you want

cognitive architecture of the subjective

human mind space you see we have first

order beliefs and then we have nested

beliefs and then we have decision gates

where we have thresholds that we have to

overcome and now we want to build here

somehow a mathematical construct that we

can code this and optimize this and we

can put it on I don't know a meta

platform or your social media platform

no so we will have to define here a

particular policy pie for our agent and

then somehow from this mind space we

have to ignite an action here in reality

so let's do this

theory of mind the evaluation asks you

an AI model to answer from the

perspective of a user and here we have a

Beautiful demonstration of a user coming

back from shopping. Isn't this

beautiful? But this user here is

integrated in a current social media

environment. Yeah, we are collecting

data about identity, demographics, about

location, mobility of the person. We are

looking at social graph, friend

relationship, communication, membership,

interaction frequency. We have

information about purchases, brand

preferences, subscription services,

creditworthiness, car ownership,

insurance data. All this information is

available and we can build some

psychological and behavioral traits of

this person. Yeah. And often we can

infer from this the impulsiveness, the

extraversion, maybe the political

engagement, the risk tolerance, even the

religion, some anxiety likelihood, some

consumer susceptibility

and and this is gorgeous, the openness

to persuasion, no by any.

So of course then we sometimes can infer

some mental health parameter if we have

access to the sleep and activity

parameters to the posting behaviors.

Does this po person post at 3:00 a.m. in

the morning? What are the topics? What

are here the groups? What are the search

time that this person is looking for?

What are the purchases for or in

relation to anything about health or

training? And what are the sentiment

changes that sometimes we notice here a

mood change here in the communication on

the public social media platforms?

Then we can build behavior traces. Huh?

Examples are purchases, browsing,

movement, app use, sleep schedule or

social interaction. And you know what?

Behavior is usually so much more

predictive on mathematical models than

when we ask this person know can you

give us a self-escription of you and we

have so many data and we have so many

beautiful data centers. We don't need

some self-escription of a human being

and we can build on temporal patterns.

No, because timing matters extremely.

Are you shopping at night? What is here

the habit the pattern that you show in

your shopping experience weekdays or

weekends? What are you shopping for? How

much do you travel? What are the

frequency as you travel? What are your

credit card? What about the changes here

during the season? Amazing. Yeah. And

your emotional posting cycles analyze

here exactly the mood whenever you post

something on public media. No. And this

allows you prediction now a mathematical

to build a mathematical model predicting

now your mood. If you have a certain

pattern the routines that you have in

your professional life you know if you

have a job from I don't know from 9 to5

and you just perform always the same

pattern in your professional career. My

goodness it is so easy for an AI exactly

to learn here this pattern. What about

your stress resistance? What about

impulsivity if you shown new offers? Hey

minus 50%. No. And then we have the

social network structures. No. Humans

are strongly shaped by peer groups. No.

Someone follows you. You follow

somebody. No. Who follows whom in

return? What are the cluster

affiliation? Which influences you engage

with? And this gives us here strong

inference here on the ideology

aspiration and of course lifestyle. The

most important here for buying. So what

we achieve here is something beautiful.

No, we have a crowd of people and

completely inhomogeneous. No, and now

with data science and here data brokers

that sell your personal data here and

available and here also as you see an

American company or university,

they are now able to separate certain

groups, target groups exactly for their

products. And you can even go for the

topology of these groups. No, it is easy

if you have leader and follower groups.

So you have a homogeneous group. So the

gorgeous thing what you can do you can

define a mathematical specific persona

that are now representative for this

group that has I don't know 10,000 or

100,000 person or for this group that

has 3 million people. Yeah. So we have

here the perfect mathematical

abstraction the behavior all the

characteristic that we can work with

because remember what was it here? Yeah.

Simulate group dynamic. But before we

can go in a group dynamic, we have to

start with a single human being because

the topic of this paper today is user

harness and user is a singular. So let's

start.

Let's say a user is you for user

beautiful does not observe here a the

environment directly at a particular

time t. Instead the user receives only a

part of the environment as a partial

observation and this observation is o

and you have this here at a particular

time t.

Now we have here an omega function where

we have exactly here our if you want

part of the environment and here the

user and this omega describes exactly

what is accessible to this particular

user you at that particular moment in

time t such as events in the same room

visible object that changes or social

media messages that are addressed here

to the user. So somehow we have to get a

feeling for this. Think about this. You

have the complete reality plane and then

we have something that is observable and

epsilon around the single particular

human. This is only his observable

environment in this particular moment of

time. Now beautiful omega models here

the physical and the communicative

constraints uh spatial co-presence line

of sight receiving directed message

social media communication whatever

and then we have somehow to model the

subjective belief space of the single

human being. Yeah. B for belief space at

a time. T for the user U. Now to reason

about social interaction the user mind

must track not only their own beliefs

but also nested beliefs. No about other

agents about other people about what

about the the trend and the group what

is coming what is in what is out no? So

we define there by now a hierarchical

belief state B for belief of a

particular time t for a particular user

here in this one. and what we have

hierarchical. So we have a first order

belief state, a second order belief

state and a third order nested belief

structure that we have to take care of.

And then we have to have an update. We

have to have a belief update because

something changes in our environment.

You receive a message, some new

information, some new knowledge, your

friends are going other places,

whatever. So this belief update, let's

make it easy and let's make it a

ruleguided belief update. Gamma

gamma of axums r are now the evolution

of the belief state over the time t and

it is governed by an update operator

gamma of r constrained now by only a set

of logical perspective axioms are and

here you have the formula for this now

what is r is a rule set and acts as an

inductive bias ensuring if you have no

observation of the single human we have

no update if an event is unobserved yes

it happened but it did not happen to the

user you and therefore or the belief at

the user u at the time t is identical to

the belief of the user u at t minus 1 or

t + 1. We have communication boundaries.

No, a message update m affects here the

belief of the user you at the time t if

and only if you is a recipient of this

message. No, and we have nested beliefs

and core observation and yeah everything

beautiful.

And then in general we have to have an

action model. when do we ignite an

action here in a human being and then a

world transition function. So let's have

a look at this. The user's action are

dictated now strictly by their let's say

subjective individual mental state B for

the belief state here of a user U at a

time T and their goal what they want to

achieve. Hey, I want to buy a new dress.

I want to buy a new car. I want to buy a

new computer or just want to go and have

fun with my friends or whatever. your

goal rather than the true environmental

state. You're human. You can change the

environment. You have set your goals,

what you want to achieve, what you want

to experience, what you want to get. So

this is the action defined here by our

policy pi. And as you see, we have here

elements is the goal and the belief and

not the environment itself. So this

subjective actions now for the single

human being subsequently feed back into

the objective state. Since we have taken

now an action we change now the

environment around us in the epsilon

around us through a transition function

where e represents here the external

story events here that is happening and

then finally finally we can go into the

inference time proving or the

consistency maximization so let's say we

have given a benchmark story s we have

to work with benchmarks here a query Q a

set of multiple choices why because yes

we're in America and we only do

everything in multiple choice so we have

to construct a trace a reasoning trace.

So the user harness now parses the story

line s into a discrete sequence and

constructs now a particular trace as you

see here in this formula. Now this here

is here our trace.

Second we have to have an evolation of

the consistency. So for each candidate

option here y which represents a claim

about a belief a goal or an action or

whatever the framework computes now a

consistency score that's inval from 0 to

one zero is nothing one is absolutely

believe in this no great this is the

formula

now you might ask the orus how they

position out the core of the agent the

llm itself and the or tell us hey our

llm is now restricted to two specialized

role in this we have is LLM as a kind of

a translation helper. What it does, it

translates here the raw story text. No,

we have a benchmark story into a prover

readable fact structure. So we are

parsing here the environment at a

particular time t and extracting now the

characters, the goal, the events, the

timelines, what is happening to whom at

what event and what are the

consequences, what are the dependencies

and whatever. And then our LLM is also

here a proof auditor. So the LLM is now

inspecting here the f final candidate

proofs to verify the semantic

compatibility and resolve the edge cases

where strict symbolic rules are too

rigid. And at this moment I said hey

wait a minute what do you mean to verify

the semantic compatibility? I thought we

going to compute here we have an

operator a projection operator. Why are

we suddenly back to the semantic

compatibility issue? And what do you

mean when symbolic uh rules are too

rigid, we fall back to a neural network?

H. Now it turns out if you read the

study a second time that instead of

treating it theory of mind as a

linguistic pattern matching exercise or

a free form reasoning the authors

formalize it only for one particular

idea because what they want is a state

estimation problem

over an agent's hidden cognitive state

because the state we don't know what the

human wants, what it needs, how can we

manipulate, how can we influence, how

can we make the user happier. Yeah, this

is the right wording. How can we make

them happy?

What they have to buy to be happy?

So yeah, they tell us by enforcing an

explicit projection operator or omega

and a ruleguided belief update our gamma

r at inference time. They built this for

a particular reason to construct now a

barrier against the perspective leakage.

Remember the perspective leakage in my

last videos also I showed you we are not

allowed to give here the boss AI or the

orchestrating AI access to all the

complete uh solutions because otherwise

we would have different effect happening

deep inside the LM in my last two

videos. So therefore we have to restrict

the access to the solution and make the

LLM work make the LLM go step by step do

the heavy sinking step by step and come

up with a solution. Notice very same the

identical topic here. So they formalize

it now as a simple state estimation

problem over the cognitive state.

And I said wait a minute does it mean

there's no new mathematical insight?

There's no new brilliant mathematical

formula.

I mean there's no math at all in this

algorithm.

Yes. It turns out that the system just

maintains a relational database. This is

a state transition graph structure of

what each character believes in. And the

update rule is just a step of a discrete

logic. But we do not activate the neural

network of our LLM. We are really here

in symbolic logic.

And the truth is this is a pure discrete

state machine tracking not anyway a

non-discrete option. So it requires if

you want zero advanced math it is just a

series of boolean operation and

dictionary assignments. I'm so sorry I

feel with you.

So what we have we just have a little

bit of a discrete mathematics a little

bit of formal logic a little bit of set

theory and a little bit of automata

theory but this is it. There's no

mathematical breakthrough theory.

There's new mathematical theorem how we

can operationalize here our projection

operators. how we can build new

embedding spaces. Nothing of that

because the truth is here the orus

utilize the LLM just a semantic to

symbolic translator

using here it deep language

understanding to convert it a raw

massing narrative text into discrete

fact is store here at a database and

then feed those facts into a rigorous

rulebased symbolic loop. My goodness to

ensure the final reasoning does not

suffer from perspective leakage.

Okay, this was a disappointment but

let's have a look at result. Is it is it

at least working? Do we at least have

some benefits of this here? Now, so

let's let's move in.

You see here elements here from a Q1 8

billion, 14 billion, 32 billion, then

the two GPD open source here and a GPD

5.4 at least. Otherwise, yeah, forget

all about the llama. Please never use

Llama 3 again on a benchmark in 2026.

This is such a nonsync anymore.

Okay. And then they have some benchmark

and they do their testing and yes and

you have a direct prompting where the

model reasons and answer directly and

you have a paradox prompting where the

model tests each answer option by

assuming it is true and checking for

contradiction. And then you have the

ledger prompting where the model is

asked to organize its reasoning around

the agent environment, observation,

beliefs, goals and actions and come up

with a solution. But the real

interesting point is this now.

So we have now this user harness and

they have here the open source model.

Beautiful. And then the closed source

model and at least we have here an Opus

4.7 and a Sonnet 4.6 and a Gemini 3.1

Pro and yeah. Okay. GBD 5.4 still. Okay.

But look at this. Suddenly here the

first the simplest benchmark we have

100%.

Hey great nice. And look at the other

benchmarks.

Now this is nice. Look at this. We have

an opensource model. Let go with a Q14

billion model, a local model. And we

have a macro accuracy of 95%.

And then we go with the same methodology

here that works on a 14B model to a

clawed ous 4.7.

And we have here an overall macro uh

accuracy of 95.94%.

So you might say, hey, wait a minute,

this is nice. So this separation that is

happening here, as trivial,

mathematically trivial as it is, it

opens up a way that the 14 billion miles

suddenly has it with micro accuracy of

almost identical to a clo OPUS 4.7. Now

this is a nice aspect. Let's talk about

this. Why is this happening? And of

course, you will agree with me when I

tell you this demonstrate here. a

decoupling of the epistemic structure of

the knowledge structure from a raw model

generation capacity that dramatically

elevates and stabilizes here the

reasoning accuracy especially look at

for a 14 billion model. Yes, even better

for a 32 billion model. But this is now

something why show you the study. This

opens now something where we say okay

maybe you don't have to pay for the opus

4.7 but you can have this locally.

This second image here shows you here

the macro accuracy on the y-axis and the

effective model output token on a log

scale here on the x-axis here and you

see here the stars our new user harness.

So you see all the stars are exactly

where we want them close to 100% and

here only 150 output tokens. This kind

of let's say visually confirms that

structuring here the inference path is

far more compute efficient than

eliciting a long unstructured chain of

sort explanation here in our inference

run. So yes we have to invest a little

bit of premputee here before we go here

and we have to prepare the system but

look at this performance. This is really

nice close to 100% macro accuracy with

only 150 token per example output token.

This is nice. So suddenly although it is

a very simple flat not really

challenging not innovative mathematical

system it provides results.

Let's have now a personal reflection.

The study ended and what can what have I

taken away from this? Yes, the cherry is

a little bit smaller but we still have

the chocolate cake.

So again under the standard direct

prompting or chain of sort the eye model

must track the complete complete and

complex epistemic transition entirely in

its multiple layers. No using self

attention layer to guess who knows what

at what time in while simultaneously

generating here the text of the answer.

And now let's put this here and let's

view this from a different perspective.

Let's reframe this. Let's reframe this

from a perspective how weak our AI

systems are in their performance because

what does user harness actually do?

Let's see behind the curtain. It

decoupled it separates this. No, because

it extract the epistemic structure and

moves it simply to an external protected

symbolic tracker or a database or

whatever you have memory and the model

is no longer responsible for remembering

in internally or calculating who knows

what at what particular time and what

changes in what time elements. No. So

this means that the external loop

handles here the tracking

programmatically rule-based

leaving now deterministic almost leaving

now the LLM probabilistic interpretation

to only perform simple localized

I would almost say symbolic translation

or audit checks.

I never thought that this would have

such a massive effect on the performance

of a system.

I thought about this and I found a

simpler example. So let's unpack its

three key components here. So we have

the raw model, the AI model here. Let's

say Opus 4.7, the generation capacity.

Then we do have the epistemic structure,

the knowledge structure inherent to

particular benchmark and the

mathematical consequences of decoupling

here the complexity. Let's think about a

pencil and paper analogy. It is not the

same mathematic. It's just the idea. You

ask two different people to solve a

complex multi-step mathematical problem

such as dividing a number here by

another number. Yeah. And you have two

persons. Person A is a math wizard.

Yeah. With a high working memory

capacity. This is my Opus 4.7. No

example. Then we have a person B. This

is me. I have a lower than average

memory. I'm a simple 3 billion AI model.

No hardly anything.

And if you force them both to calculate

now the entire division or mathematical

operation whatever you have strictly in

their heads without writing anything

down person A the genius wizard here

might get the answer right 70% of the

time while person B me I will almost

fail completely all the time

so the calculation depends entirely on

their internal mental capacity to hold

and update here those numbers in our

example but now let's change this and

now let's do what the study did. Now you

give both of them a pencil and a piece

of paper. This is it. You can separate

this. Now once you can write down the

intermediate steps on the paper, the

structure of the calculation is

offloaded. Let's say from my little

brain to the paper. I can write it down.

I can make here a beautiful calculation,

a long calculation. And suddenly both

the person A,

this is here the wizard. This is here my

Opus 4.7 and person B, this is here my

little personality. Can we both solve

the problem with 99% accuracy?

So you here person B is this 3 billion

or 8 billion Cuban model.

It is amazing that this simple things

like separating here just giving here

the eye a pencil and a piece of paper

can increase the accuracy the macro

accuracy of those benchmarks so

significantly.

So this means now in the inside only

system where with AI AI is still

horrible.

But by externalizing the structure of

the mathematical problem itself,

we have a chance to decouple the success

of the task from the raw internal memory

capacity and the number crunching. So

this means this separation as simple as

it seems to us is the path to success

for an AI system. So the reasoning

burden is shifted from a probabilistic

memory reconstruction to a simple

deterministic structure execution in a

database or wherever you have it or a

piece of paper.

So again it seems so simple but look at

the result again the same topic a QN34B

95% mark accuracy on the same task like

a claude ous 4.7 with 95.9

percentage mark accuracy our small

little models our local models with the

right harness complexity with the right

insight how this AI operates how it

works works. We can tune our little 14B

model to come damn close to a clo OPUS

4.7 model. I hope you enjoyed it. You

hope you had a little bit of fun. It was

a little bit of a dramatic roller

coaster, but at least we had our

chocolate cake. And I hope to see you in

the next video.


